---
layout: pr
date: 2023-05-03
title: "Mempool / rpc: add getprioritisationmap, delete a mapDeltas entry when delta==0"
pr: 27501
authors: [glozow]
components: ["rpc/rest/zmq", "mempool"]
host: glozow
status: upcoming
commit:
---

## Notes

Add an RPC to get prioritised transactions (also tells you whether the tx is in mempool or not), helping users clean up `mapDeltas` manually. When `CTxMemPool::PrioritiseTransaction` sets a delta to 0, remove the entry from `mapDeltas`.

Motivation / Background
- `mapDeltas` entries are never removed from mapDeltas except when the tx is mined in a block or conflicted.
	- Mostly it is a feature to allow `prioritisetransaction` for a tx that isn't in the mempool {yet, anymore}. A user can may resbumit a tx and it retains its priority, or mark a tx as "definitely accept" before it is seen.
	- Since #8448, `mapDeltas` is persisted to mempool.dat and loaded on restart. This is also good, otherwise we lose prioritisation on restart.
	- Note the removal due to block/conflict is only done when `removeForBlock` is called, i.e. when the block is received. If you load a mempool.dat containing `mapDeltas` with transactions that were mined already (e.g. the file was saved prior to the last few blocks), you don't delete them.
	- Related: #4818 and #6464.
- There is no way to query the node for not-in-mempool `mapDeltas`. If you add a priority and forget what the value was, the only way to get that information is to inspect mempool.dat.
- Calling `prioritisetransaction` with an inverse value does not remove it from `mapDeltas`, it just sets the value to 0. It disappears on a restart (`LoadMempool` checks if delta is 0), but that might not happen for a while.

Added together, if a user calls `prioritisetransaction` very regularly and not all those transactions get mined/conflicted, `mapDeltas` might keep lots of entries of delta=0 around. A user should clean up the not-in-mempool prioritisations, but that's currently difficult without keeping track of what those txids/amounts are.

## Questions

1. Did you review the PR? [Concept ACK, approach ACK, tested ACK, or NACK](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#peer-review)? What was your review approach?

1. What is mapDeltas? Why does it exist?

1. How is an entry added to mapDeltas? When is it removed?

1. What problem is this PR trying to solve?

1. What is the PR's approach to solving this problem? Can you think of any alternatives?


<!-- TODO: After meeting, uncomment and add meeting log between the irc tags
## Meeting Log

{% irc %}
{% endirc %}
-->
